# NH4H2021FallHackathon
Consolidated repository for all pitch presentations and references to hackathon teams.

Challenge Name | TeamName | TeamDescription
--------------- | ------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Trk1 | [Connect Nurse](https://github.com/NurseHack4Health/NH4H2021FallHackathon/blob/main/FinalPitch/Track%201%20-%20Connect%20Nurse.pptx) | I have always thought how to include nurses which are not currently working but wants to contribute their time, knowledge and skills that will match hospital, community and their schedule as well. this is for Low income countries such as Pakistan where data management is not so well structures. people around the globe can contribute their idea to solve this issue.    1. busy clients who miss their medical appointments  because they are busy , at work and can't access care  during the conventional hours of 7am-4 pm at the public health institutions. Lots of clients are afraid of losing their jobs  for taking time off all the time to attend to their antenatal, postnatal, child health services eg vaccinations as well as family members health care needs. These clients can have care at their convenience , be it virtually, or F2F  for a fee. . 2. Nurses who have retired,  nurses out of job, nurses who want a part-time job, young nurses with young children who don't want full time jobs, but still want to work at their convenience, can find a platform where they can register and indicate when they would be available during the day or week and for how many hours can find jobs by signing on for a fee based on the services they offer. On the other hand  healthcare organisations can contact us for nurses when they need one to close the gap of overstaffing when they don't need to.  Let me  also share my experience as  a lead nurse , we were understaffed and over worked, I had the liberty to call in nurses when we are overwhelmed, how ever, I could never get nurses at short notice and so it didn't work out for the system. If we had a pool of nurses  we call "peak shavers "", it would have solved the problem. What I have in mind is a platform for both nurses, clients and healthcare organizations.
Trk1 | The Great Resignation | Care for the Nurse- Change the Healthcare System. This is is an INSIDE JOB. Only another nurse can understand the selfless caring of nurses. Nurses empower nurses best, we do it every day. (we show up for our colleagues #1 and patients #2). We show up resilient and innovative as hell to make this broken system look like it's working. There is a reckoning in Nursing that is undeniable. Nursing, for far too long. lacks professional presence as a collective. We are 4million STRONG. We need to develop a professional support model/ program that allows us to attend to our holistic (mental, emotional, physical, spiritual, financial, community WELLNESS.  We need to develop in person NURSE CIRCLES in every facet of nursing, where we empower and uplift the only people who are crazy enough to do this job everyday- us nurses. A place where we feel seen, heard, loved and empowered. Nursing isn't what we do, it's who we are.  The disease model of healthcare is leaching into Nursing in insidious ways. We require healthcare professional who feel EMPOWERED in their own wellness, so they can model health and wellness at work. at home and in the community. Only from a place of known wellness can we authentically support the sick and and dying. No vulnerability no authenticity. We need to stop hiding our NEED FOR SUPPORT behind the grace of caring for everyone else but not ourselves. I know from experience that fellowship is the key to EMPOWERMENT.
Trk1 | Mental Health and Burnout | Nurse burnout is a huge issue within the nursing community. With the estimated amount of nurses already retiring from the Baby Boomer generation of nurses, we cannot afford to have another generation resign from the bedside where needs are perpetually growing? How can we foster a safe environment where nurses can practice safely? How can nurses feel like they are being heard? Where can we find places to protect our nurses? We're working on a resilience-model based application working on strengthening the relationship that nurses have with their own practice as well as their environments. Our application has a three step model that hopes to (1) advocate for nurses (2) help them feel grounded and (3) be positively affirmed for their efforts each shift. In advocacy, we hope to gather the nurse's perception of their workplace and have the information aggregated and anonymously sent to appropriate stakeholders who can evaluate the data and make substantial change; this empowers the nurse to speak up for their workplace, patients, and fellow staff. In grounding, we hope to be able to help the nurse find peace with the current reality; the goal is relieve anxieties and help manage any recent traumas with short but effective exercises until the nurse can truly process their situations at a later time with professional help. Finally, being positively affirmed for their efforts ensures a positive growth mindset approach for stressful situations; it encourages the nurse grow with the experience rather than grow adverse feelings about their workplace. We look to be able to leave a legacy with this application: one that allows the environment of nursing to stay health while letting essential stakeholders better insight of what it means to be a bedside nurse.
Trk1 | Bring Back Nurse Apprenticeship | Expanding nurse training beyond the current models of education. We want to leverage the different experiences and sources of knowledge in places and among people outside the acute care setting in nursing education. What might happen if we reimagine current models of pre-licensure clinical experiences to include apprenticeships outside of the hospital. How do we integrate payment reform to compensate student, preceptor and organization so all labor is reimbursed?
Trk2 | Real Time Competency Tracking | e-competency validation in real-time e-completion monitoring
Trk2 | Building Resiliency and EQ in Onboarding | Regardless of the pandemic, new nurse retention was already a well-known issue in nursing largely due to an overwhelming amount of learning in a variety of domains (skill attainment, communication management and professionalism, learning healthcare as a system-- to name a few!).  New and transitioning nurses in acute care settings may encounter diverse experiences that could lead to moral distress, post traumatic stress, and other disruptions in mental well-being in this first year and beyond.  This group will focus on  building emotional intelligence, coping, and resilience as competencies by actually identifying symptoms of these disruptions quickly and in real-time (via a mobile application) in order to connect new and transitioning nurses to resources (by either connecting to real-live mental health professionals or curated content that could help identify strategies for coping) in live-time.  The hope is to integrate this tool into traditional onboarding structures while not adding to the cognitive load of the transitioning nurse and offering as much privacy as possible to the learner.
Trk2 | Build  A Bridge | Many individuals have faced a variety of factors in their lives that affected their decision to not become a doctor. ,For many once they became a nurse, or even a nurse practitioner, it feels like starting over to pursue a MD/DO degree. Indeed this would require (many) nurses to return to square one alongside young students with no work experience. They would receive no recognition for their education, training and career.  Additionally, medicine has been a traditionally male dominated profession for its entire existence - in 2019 the percentage of female physicians was 36.3% (https://www.aamc.org/news-insights/nation-s-physician-workforce-evolves-more-women-bit-older-and-toward-different-specialties). Likewise, nursing remains nearly entirely female and in 2020 men made up 9.4% of the US’ nurses population (https://www.journalofnursingregulation.com/article/S2155-8256(21)00027-2/fulltext). These gender discrepancies point to a larger picture of inequality when it comes to education, respect, responsibility, pay, and more.  But why are we accepting this?  Nurses and nurse practitioners have an incredible wealth of knowledge about nursing, medicine, and health care in general. Should we not capitalize on this to provide a rich pool of future MDs/DOs, who bring insight and skill to the table? Not to mention the fact that there is a physician shortage that is only growing (https://www.aamc.org/news-insights/us-physician-shortage-growing).  The time has come for us to stop operating in silos, but instead value and honor nurses' breadth of experience and build a bridge. The time has come to start examining what that will look like. How can it be evidence-based, fair, accredited, and understood. I want to see nurses empowered to take this step in their career if they so choose.  First Steps: curriculum development that takes into consideration nurses' education and experience.
Trk2 | Stellar Nurse | Currently nurses, nurse educators and nursing admins don't have a unified platform to connect, learn and provide healthcare services. This limits how a nurse can gain skills, communicate their competencies and readiness for a job. We want to provide nurses with means to demonstrate their skills beyond a traditional resume to the employers. We match the hospitals with nurses with the right skillset.
Trk2 | Netaverse | An ongoing challenge for new nurses is the confidence and competency gap between newly graduated nurses and the expectations put on them in their first role. Orientation sessions are often insufficient for nurses to gain new skills, and are often cut short to boot due to staffing challenges. This challenge continues as nurses progress in their career.  As nurses progress in their career, these challenges continue - nurse often have difficulty accessing practical hands-on practical training for learning new skills, or transitioning on to new wards. Netaverse aims to provide virtual reality scenarios and training for nurses to close the current education gap.
Trk3 | Care Centric Staff Scheduling Calculator | A tool for evaluating staffing capacity. Provides a common platform for reviewing a breakout of hours and FTEs for more effective communication between nursing and finance. It also helps units/facilities to identify if they are using an identified flawed nursing FTE budget process that increases the risk of understaffing.
Trk3 | Nurseled Care Transition Interventions | Are you Interested in hacking an idea in enhancing communication between nurses and other MDTs in the care transitioning of patients from hospital to the community and via a vis? Having worked in an acute hospital setting, ED, Stroke and Geriatrics ward and now I work in a nursing home. There’s so much gap in communication and lots of information and vital patients documents lost in transition. Hoping to develop a nurse managed care transition app (TransitCare Nursehub) to be used to make communication easier and effective TransitCare will be an App that facilitate effective transfer of patients medical information, diagnosis education and readily available TransitCare Nurse for uninterrupted and easier accessibility for care planning and interventions for nurses in the healthcare system, hence reducing readmission rates, promoting quality nursing care and positive patient health outcome.  I am open to collaboration and networking
Trk3 | RNEasy | Voice to Text Service  for Nurses. Helping with making A Nurses shift more efficient and ease.
Trk3 | Improving Education on New Diagnoses | A tool to help patients learn about a new diagnosis - it would start inpatient as part of discharge education, and would be available for the patient and their caregivers/family to return back to as needed.
Trk3 | Price is RIght | I am a semi retired RN, working per diem.  I would like to see a nursing model using retired nurses to perform certain nursing functions within the Team Nurse framework. Instead of dollar per hour as we do now,  a retired RN with active license would bid to do certain function based on a wage offered by the facility.  For example, $10 per dressing change. This will relieve some load off the full time staff.  Of course, this will not work in union hospitals. I think many retired RNs would like to stay involved in patient care but are only willing to do certain functions in their own time with lower wages then they used to prior to retirement. Team nursing seems to work out well during the COVID-19 pandemic and I would not be surprised if this is the nursing model going forward,  For disclosure, I do have a website called TheRetiredNurse.com to explore opportunities like the one I propose above.  Welcome team members: Javier Alvardo, Martin Cisneros, Hiyam Nadel, Jessica Smith-Amara
Trk3 | Bedside Nurse Assignment Allocation | Time to tap into AI as a tool to help nurses do the amazing things we do. Nurse assignments are complicated. Nurse managers, charge nurses, and resource management teams often hear the groans and complaints from an overworked workforce. But what if we can balance our workloads better? What if we can understand nurse acuity and help nurses do the things they love to do?  As a charge nurse, I have taken a step back to evaluate my limitations as a human being. I have sought feedback from my peers to learn the stresses of their nurse assignments. Now I want to make a system that is smart enough to understand these variables and prompt more balanced assignments among my nursing staff!
Trk4 | Nurse Wellness in the Digital Age | The healthcare providers in our society have paid such a high cost to provide care during COVID-19. How high is that cost? We are now seeing nurses leaving the bedside and as a result hospitals are going unstaffed, patients left untreated. We are seeing a direct correlation between nursing health and health of our society. What if we developed mental health care for nurses at the bedside, in the moment of distress? Sound like something you're interested in? Let's hack together!
Trk4 | EMPOWER | Problem: Care coordination is complex, high value work that is challenging to describe, quantify, and qualify. This may result in decreased skill-task alignment, role satisfaction, retention; increased burnout, turnover, and staffing costs. Increased care fragmentation negatively impacts patient outcomes and costs of care.  Proposed Solution: We need novel, end-user driven, automated solutions to measure and characterize value for these coordinator functions. We propose a platform across the clinical pathway from referral to follow-up encompassing:   (1) time tracking; (2) data visualization; and (3) social media for comparable use cases and community support.  Produces cross functional process maps for role delineation, quantifies/qualifies care coordination encounters, creates SBAR template for business cases.    Technology Considerations: Mobile app/Webapp. ?Leverage Vizio to populate swim lanes. GPS/accelerometry. ML/AI. ?Voice recognition. Data warehouse for creation of nursing knowledge and practice ontologies.  Proposed Benefits: • Improved description, quantification, and qualification of care coordination • Potential to improve skill-task alignment/top-of-license practice; decrease burnout and turnover; increase nursing role satisfaction and retention  • Potential to improve process and performance, more readily providing necessary data to support business cases for right-fit staffing • Potential to decrease healthcare disparities, as the risks and consequences of fragmentation of care is highest in populations/settings where there is disproportionate representation of certain demographics for both patients and healthcare workers • Potential to improve the characterization of billable nursing encounters and nursing National Provider Identifiers • Potential to develop models - Nursing Knowledge and Practice Ontologies - to more readily and rigorously validate and examine the relationships between RN/APRN staffing and the Quadruple Aim (quality outcomes, cost effectiveness, patient satisfaction, healthcare team satisfaction) • Potential to strengthen the voice, visibility, and impact of the nursing profession, sustaining the workforce now and in the future
